Pilar, let's analyze the
blablacar segmentation strategy.
To know how to segment well, the most
important thing is to know
the variables or the segmentation
criteria and when you know everything
it is easier to identify what is
to apply to each case, business
model or whatever.
And what you do is enter the variables,
for each variable you get some segments
and then the next key is that
those segments use them for
something, that is, that you adapt
something, the proposal, the
channels, the messages,
I don't know what you can adapt.
Because if you segment and don't adapt
anything, that's what many people
do, because it's that for that you
don't segment, that doesn't make sense.
So, it would be good to analyze
this, what variables you use, what
it serves you to and what you adapt to.
Indeed, segmentation would be
the first step because when we
have the significant
segments for each of those
segments.
From there we have already lowered
the concrete message and the most
suitable channel to reach each segment.
The first variable we use and
the most important in our
case is the funnel.
What is the Funnel?
This is the moment when the current
or potential customer is
in relation to the perception
of blablacar.
The funnel in our case would be,
first step, who does not know blablacar.
In our case, that stage is already more
than overcome, because we
landed in Spain 10 years ago and
all that 98% of Spaniards already
know blablacar.
The second...
That is, you really have no objectives here
anymore, because you have already
accomplished them.
Exactly, we have already fulfilled it.
I assume it was.
That is, at some point, this current
segmentation, all your market
is segmenting it, in the first part,
above all, there is no longer a
2% that not But I imagine that
at the time that was the big bread,
isn't it?
Effectively, at the time, the first
years of landing, there was a lot
of work of holding, a lot of branding
and also a lot of educational content,
because in the end you have
to start by explaining what the
famous carpooling means,
sharing car, what it brings,
the issue of saving in costs
and sharing it all.
The interesting thing is what changes
the strategy in this case,
simply over time, because of having
to do campaigns, trying
to educate people in what this
is, Exactly.
What not?
That stage is already over.
You have others now, right?
And the next, it would be to define
the target audience we can reach
first and then divide
it by stages.
So, to put us in context,
in Spain there are 46 million
people and who can use it in
the face is all the older and
with access to the internet.
We understand that from 65 years
old it is very difficult to convince
you and that you start using
it in the face, so our Market
Universe, our TAM, is 24 million.
We will see it in a later class.
24 million, then we have to segment
those 24 million.
Of those 24 million, five already
use Blah Blah Car.
It means that we still have
80% of the cake to focus
on and convince for the
first time to use it
in the car.
24 million, the segment that they
don't know you is residual and then
you have a segment of people
who know you but who have not
yet used it.
What are they?
For this is our great challenge and
it is that for us the great challenge
now in this stage is the consideration
that is that people who have heard
about Blah Blah Car but who
still do not launch to use
it, have not used you.
Here we have to focus the
messages trying to break those
barriers with For example,
if people don't want to use
Blah Blah Car because it fears
that of getting into someone
unknown, well because we put
levers in that technological
layer to make it really
go from being a stranger
to being a person you've met
in Blah Blah Car, then through
the famous ratings,
through a profile by which
you can meet in a certain
way other users.
Let us identify those objections.
Within this segment, many
segments can also be made.
There will be people who are far away,
there will be people who are closer.
Even within that very large segment,
if we did, we could do segments
based on different profiles because
there will be people who will
never in life really consider
you and others yes and others
yes, right?
actually is.
You have to identify that,
identify what stops them and try to
activate them.
And if we go down, that is, we already
have, those who don't know you, there
are not, those who know you but have
not used you, there is a giant ocean.
The Giant.
We continue to descend.
Have you ever convinced them or explained
them well what Blah Blah Car is?
I think it's Blah Blah Car.
So the next step is that when
they have that need to travel,
they remember you and
use Blah Blah Car.
The next step is the
acquisition.
Acquisition in our case is to
install the Blah Blah Car app and
register.
The next segment in the funnel
is those people who have
downloaded the app but have not
yet used us.
Our goal here is to activate them
through actions.
And how is it done?
How do you manage to do it?
through the actions of the FRM.
We send you messages so that
you remember that we are there
for the next time you need to make
a trip that you consider.
This is a challenge really in all applications
because in Tulotero it
happens the same.
In the case of Tulotero the application
is downloaded but, for example, because
they do not make the first bet.
And you risk that it will stay
there, right?
It is of no use to you.
Do you have to remind them, etc., in
our case you have to remind
them depending on whether you are
a passenger or a driver?
In our case, activation would be
in the case of a driver publishing
a trip and in the case of the
passenger it would be to
reserve a seat for a trip.
The next segment.
You have already activated, posted
or booked a seat.
So you would go to a Successful
Trip that would be the real journey
to the offline experience and the
next goal, the next segment
is that you give ratings, right?
This is a key to re-alimenting
the community.
After the off-line experience
and the experience of your car...
That is, the segment is the one that has
made a journey.
and exact.
And the next segment is the one that
in addition to making a trip has made
a valuation.
You really need to value.
That is, you have already made the conversion,
as it returns to the digital environment
and values the passenger or driver
you have traveled with.
This is key for the community to
continue to foster trust.
It is interesting because this is a segment.
If we compare it from above and
so on, this is a segment with
more detail,.
That is, this segmentation is
segmenting according to, look,
how curious you have made or
not a rating after a trip,
right?
and yes.
It seems very detailed, but
it is very important to you.
The key.
Why is it?
Because it feeds the rating and so on.
That is why.
Of course, because it feeds the rating
and, in the end, what you do is to
favor people who are there doubting
whether to use it in the face or
not, go through the...
I am going on a trip with the
driver Menganito, of whom I don't know
anything, to...
Well, it is that Menganito has already
taken 300 people and has a
score of 4.7 out of 5.
That gives you a lot more confidence.
Value is key to us.
More segments, below
And more segments is, once you have
made your first trip and you have been
a success, it is already the retention part.
Repeat with us.
The reality is that, in Blablacar,
people try for the first time for
pure reason, for pure economic
fact, but then, thanks to all that
experience that has passed on the
trip, it repeats on a more emotional
side, because it has been an
enriching experience.
So we play with more
emotional content so you
can remember to use us again.
You have really done many events
based on the relationship it has
with you, but what has become
very clear is that the message
and actions you have to do
with each segment are absolutely
different.
In one case, you said no, you value it.
You will have to make
the rating.
It is a very concrete action.
To him who has already tried it once,
etc., he has traveled and so on, because
what you have to do is to impact him
back by remembering.
and exact.
Taking advantage, for example, of the
fact that there is a bridge and remembering
a week before, you hear, on this
bridge, what good, good weather,
we all go there.
Remember that if you do it as it
was, you will have it as well
as last time, for example.
and perfect.
More of Variable?
The second variable is sociodemographic,
which you can imagine, is
to understand gender, age.
The population is all of Spain
except the islands.
And then we try to follow very closely
the whole part of the
evolution of our community.
Understand if, for example, at
the beginning of the first stage, the
vast majority of our community were
young students 18 or 24 years old who
wanted to travel, they didn't have
a pastry, and the only way to do
so was with a blabla car, otherwise
they stayed at home.
And we follow very close to that
evolution and we see that it has
now evolved and is a much more
homogeneous community, since
a third is between 18 and 24, but
a third is already between
25 and 34 and a third is already
over 35 years old.
So, precisely for those messages we
have to go to each segment is very
important because each segment,
according to gender, age and their
interests, will be interested
in a value proposal that can
offer them the blabla car or
another.
Here is a segmentation, I understand
that by the model itself, the geographic
is important, because your
proposal is a bit different
depending on where you live.
It is so, you cannot...
actually is.
The needs that a person
who lives in a big city has
or the value you can lend him
by the number of trips
there and more.
Yes, the demographic theme is very
important in blabla car because,
in fact, one of the biggest
added values is what we
call point-to-point.
And it's that you can go from the door
of your home to the door of your grandmother's
house in the village directly.
It is the most direct way to travel.
This is especially important for
locations that are not well connected.
So, all these locations
can be emphasized with this
message because it is what
really brings value to them.
Have you sermented
geographically, identifying a serment
of people who live in locations
that are not capital provinces?
and exact.
The message with them is different.
Of course, to the localities that
are not provincial capitals the
key message is, hear, what better
way to travel than with a blabla
car that will take you by door,
you do not need to go down to the
station of the provincial
capital to then go to the station
of the other provincial capital
and then have to hole other
alternative means of transport.
You do it all with one means of transport.
Yes very clear.
More variables you use?
The third variable is the profit.
And profit is exactly what people
are looking for.
The fundamental benefits of blabla
car are, as I commented, the first
and most important is the point-
to-point and is that blabla car
is the most direct way to travel.
It has locations that were
not so well connected before,
thanks to blabla car they can
now be more connected.
They can travel more directly
without having to use different
means of transport.
We are moving from multimodality to single
use.
There are people who the benefit they are
looking for is, it can coincide with what we
have said, the benefit they are looking for
is that with blabla car, what they are looking
for is to be able to travel to sites where
before they could not.
and exact.
That is a very specific benefit
that we are then inventing based on
that benefit and when you have it
identified you send messages there,
which is potentially great.
actually is.
It's associated with geography
can be too, but well, it doesn't
have to be always so.
You can or can't, right.
Another benefit can be the price
and is that, for example,
the alternatives to travel if
you are a blabla car driver is
either driving alone or using
another means of transportation
such as bird, train, bus,
plane, boat, etc.
So the price often, the most
economical way to travel is
blabla car.
and yes.
And other benefits, even if
it seems a lie, can be, for
example, sustainability.
It will seem like a very niche, but
we believe that we are really increasingly
aware and it is the
fact of making a more efficient
use of the vehicle and of taking
advantage of the resources.
For we are becoming more and
more aware and in fact it is no longer
a consciousness but a social requirement,
these goals we have,
for 2030.
And we see it every time, especially
with the younger audience, we are
increasingly more aware and that
awareness makes it also one of the
benefits and that many people decide
to go in blabla car instead of
going alone in the car, because
precisely for that benefit.
I always say it and I think that I
have already said it in the master
before, I am very supporter
of segmentation for benefit because
in the end I think it is the one that
best allows you to adapt, messages and
so on, because in the end there
will be many other geographical
and so on, but these you have told
us who makes it to save, who does it
to travel to sites where you could
not, who does it, as you say, for sustainability,
etc., that are three very clear
benefits, especially the first
two, within these segments
you will have people of different
sociodemographic profiles,
etc., but what most defines them
is that, is that they want that
with you, then if you talk to
them about that is potentissimo,
I always think that is
segmentation.
Yes, because it is the most direct
message and the one that will really
impact them.
If you are 24 or 38 or 46,
but if you want to save, I'm
talking about saving, it's
very powerful.